# Virtual Desktop Tools on Windows
Tags: virtual desktop; windows

------

# Windows 10 Virtual Desktop Enhancer

sdias/win-10-virtual-desktop-enhancer on github is written in autohotkey.
No need to install, which is more light-weighted than VirtuaWin.

It's configurations are all in *settings.ini*, easy to edit, view and save.

Its taskbar icon is a digital number, which is clear to see as VirtuaWin.

m0ngr31/VirtualDesktopManager on github is another option.
But its taskbar icon is very hard to see.

# VirtuaWin

[VirtuaWin](http://virtuawin.sourceforge.net/) is incompatible with Windows
built-in virtual desktop.

Desktop layout in *Settings* of 
3 columns and 2 rows (2 wide by 2 deep).

Hotkey definitions:

NAV Move to desktop 1: alt-win-u

NAV Move to desktop 2: alt-win-i

NAV Move to desktop 3: alt-win-o

NAV Move to desktop 4: alt-win-j

NAV Move to desktop 5: alt-win-k

NAV Move to desktop 6: alt-win-l

WIN Move to desktop 1: alt-shift-win-u

WIN Move to desktop 2: alt-shift-win-i

WIN Move to desktop 3: alt-shift-win-o

WIN Move to desktop 4: alt-shift-win-j

WIN Move to desktop 5: alt-shift-win-k

WIN Move to desktop 6: alt-shift-win-l

WIN Gather all windows: alt-win-h

UI Open VirtuaWin setup: alt-win-p

Note:

`NAV`(abbr. for *navigate*) means *jump to*.
`WIN`(abbr. for *window*) means *move the activated window to*.

*Gather all windows* means moving windows in all desttops to current desktop.

Verified on Windows 10 at 2018.2.13.

[Dexpot](http://dexpot.de/) is another freeware like this.
