# Define Keymap on Ubuntu and Windows
Tags: xmodmap; Ubuntu; Windows; autohotkey

------

# Swap Caps lock and Escape Key

## Swap only once

Write the following text into file ~/.swapCapsESC:

    remove Lock = Caps_Lock 
    keysym Escape = Caps_Lock 
    keysym Caps_Lock = Escape 
    add Lock = Caps_Lock

Run `xmodmap ~/.swapCapsESC`.

Ref: http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Map_caps_lock_to_escape_in_XWindows 

## Swap permanently on Ubuntu 14.04

### Option 1

Install dconf-editor with `sudo apt-get install dconf-tools`,
start it with `dconf-editor`.
In [org -> gnome >> desktop -> input-sources -> xkb-options],
modify its value to `['caps:swapescape']`.

Ref: http://askubuntu.com/questions/363346/how-to-permanently-switch-caps-lock-and-esc.

### Option 2

Add `setxkbmap -option caps:swapescape` into ~/.profile.
Verified on Ubuntu 14.04, Unity desktop, 2016.11.27.

When a external keyboard is attach with USB, it may not swap these keys.
Now you need run `source ~/.profile` again (with this keyboard).

### Option 3

Add `XKBOPTIONS="caps:swapescape"` into /etc/default/keyboard.

Ref: http://askubuntu.com/questions/444714/how-do-i-swap-escape-and-caps-lock-in-14-04

### Option 4

Add "only once" solution to autostart:
Create file `$HOME/.config/autostart/swapCapsESC.desktop`:

    [Desktop Entry]
    Name=SwapCapsESC
    Comment=Swap Caps Lock Key and ESC Key
    Exec=xmodmap /home/leo/.swapCapsEsc
    Type=Application
    Terminal=true
    X-GNOME-Autostart-Delay=5

You can also use the GUI equivalent:
Run `Startup Applications` (input `startup` in dash (press *Win* key),
add above command in it.

## Swap permanently on Windows

For Windows, install AutoHotkey, save the following codes as swapCapsESC.ahk:

    Capslock::Esc
    ESC::Capslock

Execute it when you want to swap the keys.
If you want execute it automatically when system startup,
put the file in [Start -> Startup] folder
(open it with inputing "shell:startup" in Run).
Verified in Windows 7 & 10.

# Swap Ctrl and Alt Key

    remove mod1 = Alt_L Alt_R 
    remove control = Control_L Control_R 
    keycode 64 = Control_L 
    keycode 37 = Alt_L 
    keycode 108 = Control_R 
    keycode 105 = Alt_R 
    add control = Control_L Control_R 
    add mod1 = Alt_L Alt_R 

64, 37, etc are determined by "xev" command, see below for usage.

# Reset Key Map to Initial State

setxkbmap -layout us

# Define key swap shortcuts

It's mainly for emacs operation convenience to swap Ctrl and Alt key,
and vi operation convenience to swap Caps Lock and Escape key.
When you are not in emacs and vi, swap keys always lead confusions.
So it's necessary to switch key definition quickly.
The following are some basic method to achieve key swap shortcuts

1. Create a file named "swapCapsEsc" in /home/lichao/docs/swapkeys

    remove Lock = Caps_Lock 
    keysym Escape = Caps_Lock 
    keysym Caps_Lock = Escape 
    add Lock = Caps_Lock 

and a file named "swapCtrlAlt" in /home/lichao/docs/swapkeys:

    remove mod1 = Alt_L Alt_R 
    remove control = Control_L Control_R 
    keycode 64 = Control_L 
    keycode 37 = Alt_L 
    keycode 108 = Control_R 
    keycode 105 = Alt_R 
    add control = Control_L Control_R 
    add mod1 = Alt_L Alt_R 

1. Create keyboard shortcuts in "Application Finder (Alt + F3) -> Preferences -> Custom Actions":

    Type: Regular Expression; Pattern: swce; Command: xmodmap /home/lichao/docs/swapkeys/swapCapsEsc
    Type: Regular Expression; Pattern: swca; Command: xmodmap /home/lichao/docs/swapkeys/swapCtrlAlt
    Type: Regular Expression; Pattern: swres; Command: setxkbmap -layout us

Now you can use [Alt-F2 swce] to swap Caps lock and escape key,
use [Alt-F2 swca] to swap Ctrl and Alt key, use [Alt-F2 swres]
to make all keys to their original state (If you have swaped ctrl and alt key,
the shortcut is [Ctrl-F2 swres]).

# Usage of xev

Run "xev" in command line. A little window appear.
Make it active window and press some key, the keycode will show in the window.

# Usage of xmodmap

Run "xmodmap -pm" we got:
 
shift  Shift_L (0x32), Shift_R (0x3e) 
lock  Caps_Lock (0x42) 
control  Control_L (0x25), Control_R (0x69) 
mod1  Alt_L (0x40), Alt_R (0x6c), Meta_L (0xcd) 
mod2  Num_Lock (0x4d) 
mod3
mod4  Super_L (0x85), Super_R (0x86), Super_L (0xce), Hyper_L (0xcf) 
mod5  ISO_Level3_Shift (0x5c), Mode_switch (0xcb) 

Here the names in the left column (shift, lock, control, etc) are called "Modifier Name",
while the names in the right column (Shift_L, Caps_Lock, Control_R, Meta_L, etc) are called keysym.
Shift_L means left shift key, while Shift_R means right shift key.
Every physical key (on keyboard) has a identity (integer number) called keycode.
You can use "xmodmap -pk" to investigate these relationships.
And use `xmodmap -e "keycode <to_be_modified> = <target_key>"`
to modify these relationships.
For example, the following command make F2 key print "m" in gedit panel:

    xmodmap -e "keycode 68 = m":

Before command:

 58   0x006d (m)
 68   0xffbf (F2)

(get by "xmodmap -pk"). After command:

 58   0x006d (m)
 68   0x006d (m)

Use `xmodmap -e "keycode 68 = F2"` to modify F2 back to F2 key.

The right hand side of this assignment is keysym name. So

    xmodmap -e "keycode 16 = 7"

will map character "7" to physical key which has keycode 16.

"clear <ModifierName>" means all keysyms will be detached from this <ModifierName>.
So after `xmodmap -e "clear control"`, all control keys (left and right) are disabled.

"remove <ModifierName> = <keysym>" means remove <keysym> from the list
of current keysym list of the <ModifierName>.
So after `xmodmap -e "remove Control = Control_R"` makes right control key be disabled.
When you run `xmodmap -e "add Control = Control_R"`, the right control key is enabled again.
You can use "xmodmap -pm" to verify.

"keysym name1=name2" means binding the keys (previous binded to name2) to name1;

# Auto load xmodmap files when system start

xmodmap ~/.Xmodmap

Ref: http://earthviaradio.wordpress.com/2012/02/06/swapping-the-left-alt-and-ctrl-keys-in-ubuntu-11-10/
