# Run Interactive Shell Command in Erlang
Tags: erlang;netcat

------

The following simple Erlang netcat client demonstrates the communication between Erlang program and external OS process. The rc.erl start a netcat client to connect to a netcat server, and send some message to the server at a given time.

 

1. Create Erlang server;
 
    -module(rc). 
    -export([cmd/1]). 
    cmd(Cmd) -> 
        Opt = [stream, exit_status, stderr_to_stdout, eof], 
        P = open_port({spawn, Cmd}, Opt), 
        get_data(P, [], 0). 
    get_data(P, Sofar, 3) -> 
        port_command(P, "abcd"), 
        get_data(P, Sofar, 4); 
    get_data(P, Sofar, Cnt) -> 
        receive 
            {P, {data, Bin}} -> 
                io:format("rec Bin: ~p, Cnt=~p~n", [Bin, Cnt]), 
                get_data(P, [Bin|Sofar], Cnt+1); 
            {P, eof} -> 
                port_close(P), 
                receive 
                    {P, {exit_status, N}} -> 
                        {N, lists:reverse(Sofar)} 
                end 
        end. 

1. Start netcat server: run command `nc -l 3333` at host 10.21.3.31;

1. Start netcat client:

    $ erl 
    ...

    1> c(rc).

    {ok,rc} 
    2> rc:cmd("nc 10.21.3.31 3333").

1. Send message from server to client: press "1<CR>2<CR>3<CR>4<CR>^C", client output as follows:

    rec Bin: "1\n", Cnt=0
    rec Bin: "2\n", Cnt=1 
    rec Bin: "3\n", Cnt=2 
    rec Bin: "4\n", Cnt=4 
    {0,["1\n","2\n","3\n","4\n"]} 
    3> 

When you press <CR> after 3, you can receive "abcd" from netcat client.

The pattern of Erlang-Shell communication is: 

* Use "open_port" to start a external shell process;

* Use "receive" clause to receive output of the process;

* Use "port_command" to send message to process;

* Use "port_close" to close the shell;

Notes:

1. For non-interactive shell command, os:cmd/1 is a better choice;

1. If you want to catch the event that the peer close actively, add "eof" into option list of open_port; If you want to catch the exit value of the shell process, add "exit_status" to option list of open_port;

1. Not specify "in" in option list of open_port when you want to send the process some message, or a "ebadf" exception arises, because "in" means this process only used for input, and "ebadf" means the file is not open for reading or writing.

1. [Erlang port communicate with python](http://www.cnblogs.com/gibbon/archive/2012/12/26/Erlang.html) is a good demonstration of erlang calling a python script; Chapter 12 of "Programming Erlang" also concentrate Erlang interfacing techniques.
