# Jenkins user account configurations
Tags: security; authorization; jenkins

------

# Project-based Matrix Authorization

This strategy let user A only see his own project,
and in his project, he can only run, but can't modify the configuration
of the project.

Manage Jenkins -> Configure Global Security:

Check "Jenkins own database" under "Access Control" and uncheck
"Allow users to sign up".

Check [Authorization -> Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy]

Ensure [Overall -> Read] is checked for user "Anonymous",
or a 404 error will raised, and administrator user has all the rights.

In user A's project (job), check "Enable project-based security", [Add] user A,
check "Build", "Cancel", "Discover" & "Read" in "Job" group,
and all items in "Run" group.

If the job is in a *Folder*, you have to give user A *Job -> Read* permission
of that folder.
For example, to make user leo see and run job "deploy beta" in folder
"deploy jobs", check *Job -> Read* of the user leo in
"Enable project-based security" section in *Configuration* of "deploy jobs".

# Lightweight Security Management

1. Start Jenkins;

1. Jenkins -> Manage Jenkins -> Global Security -> enable security;

1. Select "Security Realm ->Jenkins's own user database";

1. Check "Allow user to sign up";

1. Check Authorization -> Logged-in users can do anything;

1. Click "Save";

1. Sign in as "admin";

1. Manage Jenkins -> Global Security -> uncheck "Allow user to sign up";

Now anonymous users are read-only for Jenkins. This security strategy are suitable for one user scenario.

===Deprecated===

1. Start Jenkins Service: nohup java -jar jenkins.war 1>jenkins.log 2>jenkins.log &

1. Jenkins -> Manage Jenkins -> Global Security -> enable security;

1. Select "Security Realm ->Jenkins's own user database";

1. Check "Allow user to sign up";

1. Select "Matrix-based security" as the authorization;

1. Give anonymous user the read access;

1. In Textbox follow "User/group to add", write "admin" and click "add" button;

1. Give admin full access right by checking all items in the row;

1. Click "save" button at the bottom;

1. Now you should be locked out of Jenkins. But you can find a "sign up" link at the upper-right corner on the main page;

1. Sign up a user named "admin"(the same you config at preceding steps), set password, then you can login as administrator.

[Quick and Simple Security](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Quick+and+Simple+Security) does not work on my Ubuntu Desktop PC.

Reference: 

[Standard Security Setup](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Standard+Security+Setup);

[Help! I locked myself out!](https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Disable+security)
