# Development with vim on Multiple Layers Project
Tags: plugin; Vim; file explore; fuzzyfinder; ctrlp

------

# ctrlp

Install [ctrlp](https://github.com/kien/ctrlp.vim) with vundle:

    Plugin 'ctrlp.vim'

It is more powerful, faster than FuzzyFinder, and easier to install and use.

Use <Ctrl-P> to search files recursively under current folder.

In the search results window, you have 2 ways to open the selected file:

* press <Enter> to open file in current window,

* press <Ctrl-O> to choose how to open the file, for example "h" to open it in
  a new horizontal window.

* Add `let g:ctrlp_custom_ignore = { 'dir': 'node_modules\|.git' }` into .vimrc to
  exclude folder *node_modules* from search list.
  Notice that the backslash before `|` is mandatory. If this does not work,
  delete folder `~/.cache/ctrlp`, or run `:ClearAllCtrlPCaches` in vim.

# FuzzyFinder

[FuzzyFinder](https://github.com/vim-scripts/FuzzyFinder) (created by Takeshi NISHIDA)
is a powerful search tool like "go to everything" in sublime text 2.
Command-T is a similar tool. But it need ruby and have to compile it.

L9 plugin (also created by Takeshi NISHIDA) is needed to use this plugin.

## Search and Open File

### CoverageFile Mode

This mode is invoked by command :FufCoverageFile.
It includes all files in current working directory and subdirectories.
Note it only matches characters in one name.

Say you have a file at ./abc/def/stu.xyz,
you can find it with "suyz", "sxyz" or any combinations of characters in "stu.xyz".
But "ads" and "des" will match nothing.
You can find it with partial name, in this case "d/s" will get stu.xyz.

Add `nnoremap <C-o> :FufCoverageFile<CR>` in ~/.vimrc to map ctrl-o to invoke Coverage File command,
then input the filename pattern, then press <CR>.
Cancel it with <ESC> key.

### File Mode

This mode is invoked by command :FufFile.
It only includes files in current working directory, without files in subdirectories (so not very useful).
