# Install packages on a Internet-blocked Server
Tags: ubuntu server; proxy

------

# Using Proxy

Verified on Ubuntu Server 12.04, 2013-6-8.

1. Start a goagent server at 10.21.3.31;

1. Login in as root, modify any cn.archive... to us.archive... in /etc/apt/sources.list;

1. Use proxy temporarily: `export http_proxy=http://10.21.3.31:8087`; 
   Use it permament: add the following line to your /etc/apt/apt.conf(substitute your details for address and port):
   `Acquire::http::Proxy "http://10.21.3.31:8087"`;

Now you can use `apt-get` or `wget` to install something.

# Download & Install

## RPM-based

### Download from a internet-connected host

Get rpm files from cache /var/cache/yum, or use 3rd-party tool yumdownloader:

    # yum install yum-utils
    # yumdownloader --resolve subversion

Note you can add "--urls" to only list download urls instead of downloading RPMs,
it can be used as "dry-run" mode; If yumdownloader can't resolve dependencies properly,
see [yumdownloader downloads only i686 resolved rpms](http://errors.bz/Questions/yumdownloader-downloads-only-i686-resolved-rpms-153416.html) for solutions.

### Instll on a isolated host

    # rpm -ivh <package-name>.rpm

## Debian-based

### aptitude

Notice that 32bit and 64bit of some packages are uncompatible.
So you want to download 64bit packages on a 32bit machine,
you have to `vagrant up` a 64bit VM,
download deb files and save them in shared folder.

#### Download

Download package and all its dependencies with aptitude:

    `sudo aptitude --download-only install <package-name>`

This will download deb files to /var/cache/apt/archives.
Copy the package and all its dependencies to a folder then run `sudo dpkg -i *.deb`.
If you are not sure about which is the related packages,
use `sudo aptitude clean` to remove all existing .deb files before download.

Verified by `sudo aptitude --download-only install subversion` on vagrant box precise64.

`sudo apt-get download <package-name>` will download deb files to current directory,
since it does not resolve dependencies. So it's not very useful.

#### Install

    `sudo dpkg -i *.deb`

Ref:

* http://stackoverflow.com/questions/13756800/how-to-download-all-dependencies-and-packages-to-directory

* http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4419268/how-do-i-download-a-package-from-apt-get-without-installing-it

### apt-offline

#### Installation

    `sudo aptitude install apt-offline`

#### Usage

1. Specify what to install on the offline-machine:
   `sudo apt-offline set --update --upgrade --install-packages subversion openjdk-6-jre ant -- apt-offline.sig`;

1. Downlaod data on a internet-connected machine:
   `apt-offline get --bundle mypack.zip -t 5 apt-offline.sig`,
   where mypack is the downloaded archive and "-t  5" means "download with 5 threads";

1. Copy mypack.zip to the offline-machine and extract it:
   `sudo apt-offline install mypack.zip`;

1. Install it with `sudo dpkg -i <packages>.deb`.
