# Notes about Conway's Game of Life in "Clojure Programming"
Tags: Clojure Programming;Conway's Game of Life

------

# indexed-step

 

* (-> (iterate indexed-step glider) (nth 8) pprint) is equals to (pprint (nth (iterate indexed-step glider) 8));

 

* (iterate f x) means "Return a lazy sequence of x, (f x), (f (f x)) etc, f must be free of side-effects";

 

So (indexed-step glider) returns the next state of the board "glider" based on its current state. 

 

(nth (iterate indexed-step glider) 8) is the 8th step of the transformation. If you want to see the 4th step just modify 8 to 4 in above code snippet.

 

(->> (iterate indexed-step glider) (take 5) ppr/pprint), equals to (ppr/pprint (take 5 (iterate indexed-step glider))), displays every step of the transformation from origin state to the first translational position.

 

The result of above code can be verified visually at [http://www.bitstorm.org/gameoflife/] (use mouse button to add/remove seed in the panel).

 

# index-free-step

 

* "map", "partition" and "concat" create a lazy seq;

 

Why add a (repeat nil) to board in "index-free-step"?

 

# step

 

* "frequencies" receives a collection, returns a map, the key is the item of the collection, the value is the number of times this item appear. So:

 

 (frequencies [1 2 3 2 3 4]) => {1 1, 2 2, 3 2, 4 1}

 

* (mapcat f coll) <=> (apply concat (map f coll));

 

* "for" is the Cartesian product. So:

 

 (for [x [:a :b] y [1 2]] [x y]) => ([:a 1] [:a 2] [:b 1] [:b 2])

 (for [[x y] {1 1, 2 2, 3 2, 4 1}] [x y]) => ([1 1] [2 2] [3 2] [4 1])

 

and "(for [[x y] (frequencies [1 2 3 2 3 4]) :when (= y 2)] x)" select items which appear 2 times in collection.

 

Translate example 3-7 to plain text is:

 

1. The live cells are a subset of all neighbours of original live cells;

 

1. Every cell in the neighbour area are expressed as variable "loc", while the number of its neighbour is expressed as "n";

 

1. To a cell "loc", if one of the following conditions are met, it is alive:

 

 * It has 3 neighbours, expressd as (= n 3);

 

 * It has 2 neighbours and it is alive, expressed as (and (= n 2) (cells loc))

 

Example 3-7:

 

 (defn step 
  [cells] 
  (set (for [[loc n] (frequencies (mapcat neighbours cells)) 
     :when (or (= n 3) (and (= n 2) (cells loc)))] 
    loc))) 

 

# stepper

 

* To hex-step, the board and cells are all hexagonal, which means every cell has 6 neighbours;

 

* To every cell (loc) in the neighbour area, if it is alive(tested with (cells loc) in the "for" function), it's liveness is determined with "survive?" function: (survive? n); otherwise it's determined with "(birth? n)";

 

* Test 4 step oscillator:

 

 (def init #{[0 0] [1 1] [1 3] [0 4]}) 
 (= (-> (iterate hex-step init) (nth 4)) init)