# Note about "Programming in Haskell"
Tags: Haskell

------

# 1.7 Exercises

4. How should the definition of the function qsort be modified so that it
produces a reverse sorted version of a list?

    qsort :: Ord a => [a] -> [a] 
    qsort [] = [] 
    qsort (x:xs) = qsort bigger ++ [x] ++ qsort smaller where 
        smaller = filter (<=x) xs 
        bigger = filter (>x) xs

# Type and Class

Recall that a type is a collection of related values.
Building upon this notion, a class is a collection of types that support certain
overloaded operations called methods. -- Section 3.9: Basic Classes

# Patterns Matching

Section 4.4, excellent explanation about tuple pattern,
list pattern and integer pattern.

Note that cons patterns must be parenthesised, because function application
has higher priority than all other operators. (p34)

# 4.8 Exercises

1. Splits an even-lengthed list into two halves:

        halve :: [a] -> ([a], [a])
        halve x = splitAt (div (length x) 2) x

2. safetail

    safetail :: [a] -> [a]
    -- conditional expression
    safetail xs = if null xs then []
        else tail xs
    -- guarded equation
    safetail xs | null xs = []

       | otherwise = tail xs

    -- pattern matching

    safetail [] = []

    safetail xs = tail xs

# 5.7 Exercies

1. sum [x**2|x<-[1..100]]

1. replicate n x = [x | t <- [1..n]]
   (answer of textbook: replicate n x = [x|_<-[1..n]]

1. Find pythagorean triples:

        pyths n = [(x,y,z)|x<-[1..n], y<-[1..n], z<-[1..n], x**2+y**2==z**2]

1. Find perfects number:

        factors n = [x | x <- [1..n-1], n `mod` x == 0]
        perfects n = [x|x<-[1..n], x == sum (factors x)] 

# sat function in Chapter 8

The codes in section 8.1~8.3 and 8.6 doesn't work.
The author explained it in chapter remarks(section 8.9) and the errata
(Pages 74 to 78...). He also gave a monad version of "Parser" in his website:
[Code -> Parsing](http://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~gmh/Parsing.lhs).
So I am afraid we have to learn some monads then come back to this interesting Haskell parser.

Ref: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2607498/programming-in-haskell-error-in-sat-function

# Chapter 9

## Clear Screen

MyClr.hs:

    module Main where 
    cls :: IO () 
    cls = putStr "\ESC[2J" 
    bingo :: IO () 
    bingo = putStr "bingo!\n" 
    main = do cls 
       bingo 
    $ ghc MyClr.hs
    $ ./MyClr

You have to remove the type declaration sentences.

## StrLen

    strLen :: IO () 
    strLen = do putStr "Enter a string: " 
       xs <- getLine 
       putStr "The string has " 
       putStr (show (length xs)) 
       putStrLn " characters." 

Then load in ghci and run "strLen".

## goto (in ghci)

    let goto (x,y) = putStr ("\ESC[" ++ show y ++ ";" ++ show x ++ "H")
    goto (20,20)

# Chapter 10

## Normal Functions and Constructor Function

    data Shape = Circle Float | Rect Float Float

The constructors Circle and Rect are actually constructor functions,
which produce results of type Shape from arguments of type Float.
The difference between normal functions and constructor functions is that
the latter have no defining equations, and exist solely for the purpose
of building pieces of data. The expression Circle 1.0 is just a piece of data,
in the same way that 1.0 itself is just data.

## Diferent Kinds of tree

The parameter type "a" represents the stored data.

* Store data only in leaves: data Tree a = Leaf a | Node (Tree a) (Tree a)
 
* Store data only in nodes: `data Tree a = Leaf | Node (Tree a) a (Tree a)`
  and: `data Tree a = Node a [Tree a ]`
 
* Store data both in leaves (data type is "a") and nodes (data type is "b"): 
  `data Tree a b = Leaf a | Node (Tree a b) b (Tree a b)`

# Chapter 11

    results ns = [res| (ls,rs) <- split ns, 
         lx <- results ls, 
         ry <- results rs, 
         res <- combine' lx ry] 

Above is a imperative-style calculation in list comprehension.
The cost is you have to put your result in a list,
while empty list means failure of calculation.
