# FP vs OOP
Tags: functional programming;OOP

------

# Four Paradigms of Decomposing Problems

* Procedural: C, Pascal, Unix shells;

* Declarative: SQL;

* Object-oriented: Smalltalk, Java;

* Functional: Haskell;

# Relations of FP and OOP

> Functional programming can be considered the opposite of object-oriented programming.
> Objects are little capsules containing some internal state along
> with a collection of method calls that let you modify this state,
> and programs consist of making the right set of state changes.
> Functional programming wants to avoid state changes as much as possible
> and works with data flowing between functions."

--From [Functional Programming HOWTO](http://docs.python.org/2/howto/functional.html)

> I think the lack of reusability comes in object-oriented languages,
> not in functional languages. Because the problem with object-oriented languages is
> they've got all this implicit environment that they carry around with them.
> You wanted a banana but what you got was a gorilla holding the banana and the entire jungle.

--Joe Armstrong (the creator of Erlang) discussed in
  "Coders At work" about the reusability of Object-Oriented Programming. 

To be fair, in my opinion it's not an intrinsic problems of OOP.
You can write OOP code which is also functional, but certainly: 

* Typical OOP tends to emphasize change of state in objects. 

* Typical OOP tends to impose tight coupling between layers (which hinders modularization). 

* Typical OOP mixes the concepts of identity and state. 

* Mixture of data and code raises both conceptual and practical problems. 

-- [Ruby Functional Programming](http://code.google.com/p/tokland/wiki/RubyFunctionalProgramming) 

Rich Hickey, the creator of Clojure (a functional Lisp-dialect for the JVM),
discusses state, values and identity in
[excellent talk](http://www.infoq.com/presentations/Value-Identity-State-Rich-Hickey).

If we can do functional programming with Python,
do we need a specific functional programming language?

http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/42986/if-we-can-do-functional-programming-with-python-do-we-need-a-specific-functiona
