# Search String in Files in Vim
Tags: grep; vim; search

------

Question: Working in vim, I want to search a string, say "ord", in some files,
say, all the .hs files,
in current folder (and all its subfolders), while I don't want to leave vim.

Answer:

# ag.vim plugin

Install [the_silver_searcher](https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher)
with `sudo aptitude install silversearcher-ag`.

Install [ag.vim](https://github.com/rking/ag.vim) with adding codes below into
~/.vimrc:

    let g:ag_highlight=1
    Plugin 'rking/ag.vim'

Here "g:ag_highlight=1" make the preview function useful with `go` shortcut
in quickfix window.

Search 'pattern" with `:Ag [options] pattern [path]`.
"path" is optional with the default value `:pwd`.

Search the word under cursor with `:Ag`.
See `:h Ag` for all commands Ag provides.

Frequently used options:

"-i": ignore case: `:Ag -i pattern`.
"-w": match whole word: `:Ag -w pattern`.
"-Q": match pattern literally, do not use regular expression.

In the quickfix window, use "o" to jump to the target file,
"e" to open file and close the quickfix window, 
"t" to open file in a new tab,
"v/h" to open target file in vertial/horizontal split window,
"q" to close the quickfix window, etc.

In the editor window, use ":ccl/:cope" to close/open quickfix window,
":cn/:cp" to move to next/previous target (even when quickfix window is closed).
":cfir/:cla" to jump to first/last target.

Search "keyboard shortcuts" in `:h Ag` to see the details.

It's much faster than "ack-grep" below.

# easygrep plugin

Add `Plugin 'dkprice/vim-easygrep'` into ~/.vimrc.
Search word 'vari' with `:Grep vari`.

Install `ack-grep` with aptitude.
And use `:GrepProgram` to change search utility to `ack-grep`.

Use `:cw`/`:ccl` to open/close search result window;
`:cn`/`:cp` to jump to next/previous result;

# Search List Version

    :vim /ord/ *.hs

You will auto jump to the first matched file.
If you don't want this auto-jump, use `:vim /ord/j *.hs`.
Now you can use ":cn" or ":cp" to traverse between all matched files,
or use ":cw" to open search result window (use ":clo" to hide this window). 

# No Search List Version

    :lv ord *.hs

There is no search result window (quickfix window) for this "lv" command. And you can't use ":cn" and ":cp" also.

# Fast Search Version

    :grep ord *.hs

You will see a grep result in console.
After pressing <Enter>, you come back to vim, ":cn", ":cp" and ":cw", etc,
are the same with above. This version use system "grep" command, so it's faster than ":vim".

Ref: 

http://vim.wikia.com/wiki/Find_in_files_within_Vim

google "vim quickfix"

:h :vim, :h :grep, :h lv
