# Convert Markdown Files to PDF Files on Linux
Tags: md; pdf; convert; linux

------

Use pandoc to convert a markdown file to MS Word file on Linux system:

    sudo apt-get install pandoc
    pandoc input.md -o output.docx

To convert it to pdf file, you have to install texlive first:

    sudo apt-get install texlive   // this is a big package, 281MB to download
    sudo apt-get install texlive-xetex lmodern etoolbox
    pandoc MyResume.md -o Resume.pdf --latex-engine=xelatex -V mainfont='WenQuanYi Micro Hei'

Get all installed fonts with `fc-list` on Linux Mint.

Note1: If there no Unicode characters (such as Chinese characters) in
the markdown file, use 'DejaVu Sans Mono' instead of WenQuanYi,
much better than the latter.

Note2: `pandoc myresume.md -s -o test1.pdf` met
"Error producing PDF from TeX source.  ! Package inputenc Error..."
on Linux Mint 17, i3wm.

Note3: The page margin of the default pdf file is too large.
Don't know how to set margin yet.

Note4: The wkhtmltopdf can't convert hyperlinks in html to pdf files properly.
So this is not a valid options.

To convert a resume file (markdown) to html:

    $ pandoc myresume.md -f markdown -t html -s -o resume.html

or simply "pandoc myresume.md -s -o resume.html", the "-s" option is necessary,
or Chinese characters will be massed up.

The personal information section (name, address, email, mobiles, etc) is
left-aligned, while they should be centered. However there isn't "centering"
format in markdown, so I have to add this format  manually in created html files:

    $ vi resume.html
    // add "<DIV ALIGN=CENTER>" before the centering section
    // add "</DIV>" after the centering section
