# Vagrant Notes
Tags: vagrant; virtualbox; Linux

------

1. Download and install VirtualBox 4.3.6 for Ubuntu 12.10
   (which is the base of Linux Mint 14) i386, file name:  virtualbox-4.3_4.3.6-91406~Ubuntu~quantal_i386.deb;

1. Download and install vagrant installer for linux: vagrant_1.4.3_i686.deb;

1. Follow the ["Getting Started" guide of vagrant](http://docs.vagrantup.com/v2/getting-started/index.html):

    $ vagrant init precise32 http://files.vagrantup.com/precise32.box
    $ vagrant up

The first step simply created a config file in the current folder,
so it's very fast. The second step will download a box file from vagrantup.com
and could be fairly slow. When it's done, use `vagrant ssh` to login to the VM,
use `vagrant suspend` to save your work and shutdown the VM,
use `vagrant up` agian to startup the VM again.

# Add box locally

1. Downlaod box file from internet;

1. `vagrant box add <box-name> <box-file-path>`, where <box-name> is a logical
   name you specify, <box-file-path> is local filesystem path.

"package" is a "green" command. It will not affect your current box list,
just produce a box file.

# Login as root

`sudo su -`

# Package Refined VMs

Under the project folder (which contains "Vagrantfile"):

1. Write some comments in README file, for example the installed components: "This box is based on ... , has installed ... , has run 'apt-get update (or apt-fast update)".

1. Run `vagrant package --output mybox.box --include README` (no need to shutdown VM beforehand, vagrant will shutdown it);

1. After `vagrant box add mybox mybox.box`, go to ~/.vagrant/boxes/mybox/virtualbox/include/ to see the README file, where "virtualbox" is the provider name of your VM, it can be vmware or something else.

1. Run `vagrant box remove mybox` to remove this box from your vagrant box lists.

# Add command alias for type efficiency

Add the following into ~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc:

    alias va='vagrant'
    alias vas='vagrant status'
    alias vau='vagrant up'
    alias vah='vagrant halt'
    alias vad='vagrant destroy'

# Example Vagrantfile

```
Vagrant.configure(2) do |config|
  config.vm.box = "ubuntu/xenial64"
  config.ssh.username = "ubuntu"
  config.ssh.password = "..."
  # get the password from ~/.vagrant.d/boxes/<box-id>/0/<provider-id>/Vagrantfile
  # e.g.: ~/.vagrant.d/boxes/ubuntu-VAGRANTSLASH-xenial64/0/virtualbox/Vagrantfile
  config.vm.define "kivybox"
  config.vm.hostname = "kivybox"

  config.vm.network "public_network", ip: "172.18.0.242"
  config.vm.provider "virtualbox" do |vb|
    vb.memory = "10240"
  end
end
```
