# Build Working Environment with i3 and Mint
Tags: i3; linux; mint

------

# Base System

Install Linux Mint 17 Xfce with Live DVD (USB key created by YUMI 2.0.5)
on Asus X84H laptop. The "/" partition is 30GB, while the "/home" partition is 50GB.

No need to install any hardware drivers. It simply works!

# Window Manager

```
sudo aptitude install i3-wm dmenu i3status i3lock
```

## Startup Configurations

### MDM

Mint's default graphical login manager is MDM,
see [New features in Linux Mint 17 Xfce](http://linuxmint.com/rel_qiana_xfce_whatsnew.php).
Logout of Xfce desktop. In login manager, you can find "i3", choose it,
and login i3 environment. Its user level auto startup script is ~/.xsessionrc.
It should be the same with .xinitrc.
So make a link from it with `ln -s ~/.xinitrc ~/.xsessionrc`.
See /etc/mdm/Xsession for variable definitions, such as USERXSESSION, USERXSESSIONRC, etc.
See [CustomXSession](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/CustomXSession) for more.

### xinit

See note "Run Linux Without Desktop Environment".
Its user level auto startup script is ~/.xinitrc.

## Input Method

Add the following lines into ~/.xinitrc before "exec i3":

    export GTK_IM_MODULE=xim
    export QT_IM_MODULE=xim
    export XMODIFIERS="@im=fcitx"
    fcitx &

## Power Management in i3

Check if "pm-utils" has been installed via `dpkg -l|grep pm-utils`. If not, install it with `sudo aptitude install pm-utils`;

Add the following line into /etc/sudoers:

    %sudo   ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /sbin/poweroff, /sbin/reboot, /sbin/shutdown, /usr/sbin/pm-suspend, /usr/sbin/pm-suspend-hybrid

Add file /usr/local/bin/pm and `chmod 755 /usr/local/bin/pm`:

    #!/bin/sh
    lock() {
        i3lock -c 000000
    }

    case "$1" in
        lk)
            lock
            ;;
        logout)
            i3-msg exit
            ;;
        ssd)
            lock && sudo pm-suspend-hybrid
            ;;
        hibernate)
            lock && sudo pm-hibernate
            ;;
        rbt)
            sudo reboot
            ;;
        shd)
            sudo poweroff
            ;;
        *)
            echo "Usage: $0 {lk|logout|ssd|hibernate|rbt|shd}"
            exit 2
    esac
    exit 0

The "-c" option of i3lock command specifies the screen color,
where "000000" is black.

Now any user belonging to sudo group can run `pm lk|ssd|rbt|shd` to lock,
suspend, reboot or shutdown computer without input password.
If the user is not a sudoer, run `usermod -aG sudo username` with root.
Verify user's group with `id`, `groups` or `groups username`.

Ref:

http://askubuntu.com/questions/168879/shutdown-from-terminal-without-entering-password

http://askubuntu.com/questions/159007/how-do-i-run-specific-sudo-commands-without-a-password

http://askubuntu.com/questions/2214/how-do-i-add-a-user-to-the-sudo-group

http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-linux-add-user-to-group/

http://linuxers.org/article/difference-between-primary-and-secondary-groups-linux

## Config System Font

1. List all available fonts installed: `fc-list`. For example,
   when run `fc-list|grep wqy`, we got the name of this pre-installed
   Chinese font: "WenQuanYi Micro Hei".

1. Edit config file ~/.i3/config: replace
   "font -misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--13-120-75-75-C-70-iso10646-1" with
   "font pango:WenQuanYi Micro Hei 11".
