# Virtual Environment in Python
Tags: virtualenv; virtualenvwrapper; PyCharm

------

# virtualenv

virtualenvwrapper is not file based (it depends heavily on `workon`).
And it's setup is not very easy.
While virtualenv can be used like npm (one virtual env in one project).
So I prefer virtualenv to virturalenvwrapper
for managing Python project environment.

Install it with `sudo pip install virtualenv`.

Workflow with virtualenv:

1. In a Python project root folder, run `virtualenv venv` to build the home
folder for virtual environment, and add `venv` into .gitignore.

1. Run `. venv/bin/activate` to activate the environment;

1. `pip install -r requirements.txt` to install dependent packages;

1. Edit files and test project with `python ...`;

1. Quit environment with `deactivate`;

Note:

Add `-p <python-bin-path>` to use alternative Python executable.
For example, `virtualenv -p /usr/bin/python3 venv`
to build an environment using Python 3.

# virturalenvwrapper

## Installation

    $ sudo pip install virtualenvwrapper

Add the following lines into ~/.zshenv:

    WORKON_HOME=~/docs/workspace/python-workspace/env-home
    PROJECT_HOME=~/docs/workspace/python-workspace/project-home

and create the two folders specified above.

Add following lines into ~/.zshrc:

    source /usr/local/bin/virtualenvwrapper.sh

## Usage

### For new project

Create a new project funcPy using Python 3.x (run in any foler):

    mkproject -p /usr/bin/python3 funcPy

The CWD will be changed into the project root automatically.

Verify:

    $ python -V
    Python 3.4.3
    $ deactivate
    $ python -V
    Python 2.7.6

Coming into the project root and virtualenv later: `workon funcPy`.
Use <tab> key to autocomplete after `workon `.

If using the default Python version (in Ubuntu 14.04 it is 2.7)
for your virtual environment, create the project with `mkproject funcPy`.

To debug this project in PyCharm, open the project in PyCharm
(get the project root folder with `workon funcPy && echo $PWD`).
In [File -> Settings -> Project: funcPy -> Project Interpreter],
press the gear button on the right side of "Project Interpreter",
choose "Add Local", select the python executable in the corresponding 
virtualenv folder (get it with `cdvirtualenv && echo $PWD/bin/python`).

The python intepreter config is persisted in PyCharm project configuration,
so no need to use `workon` every time open the project in PyCharm.

See
[Adding Existing Virtual Environment in PyCharm 2016.1 Help](http://bit.ly/23b30fY)
for reference.

Note:

If the script has command line arguments,
add them in [Run -> Edit Configurations -> Script parameters].

### For existing project

    git clone git@github.com:mbr/flask-bootstrap.git
    cd flask-bootstrap
    mkvirtualenv flask-bootstrap
    setvirtualenvproject
    cd sample_app
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    mkvirtualenv testenv2
    setvirtualenvproject

Now there are 2 virtualenvs: flask-bootstrap and testenv2 are associated with
project flask-bootstrap.
If you input `workon ` and press TAB, you can see both these 2 virtualenvs.
No matter which one you choose, you will be transmitted to the root folder of
project flask-bootstrap.

Note: use `rmvirtualenv testenv2` to remove a virtualenv.


## Discussion

There are two concepts in virturalenvwrapper.
One is "virtual environment", which has its own python executables.
The other is "project", where your source codes resides.
They are n-to-1 relationship.
If you specify a project-virtualenv relation with
`setvirtualenvproject path-to-project-A path-to-env-X`,
while the virtualenv X already has associated to project B,
the new project A will replace the old project B.

Why not use the same folder for both project and environment, like npm?

Reason 1: 
A project can associate with many virtualenvs (through `setvirtualenvproject`),
so for example you can test your application under Python 2 and 3
in difference virtual environments.

Reason 2:
Unlike the "node_modules" folder in a node.js project,
Python project can't put packages directly into the source folder.
Use `pip install the-package && pip freeze > requirements.txt` to install
a package and save it into dependency document,
like `npm install the-package --save`.
Activate you virtual env and use `pip install -r requirements.txt`
to install all dependencies into the virtual environment.

"mkvirtualenv env1" will create a new "virtual environment" in $WORKON_HOME,
regardless your CWD.

"mkproject proj1" will create both a "virtual environment" named "proj1"
in $WORKON_HOME and a "proj1" folder in $PROJECT_HOME.
Then go to $PROJECT_HOME/proj1,
and activate the virtual environment proj1. So "mkproject proj1" equals to:

    $ mkvirtualenv proj1
    $ mkdir $PROJECT_HOME/proj1
    $ cd $PROJECT_HOME/proj1
    $ workon proj1

Associate an existing virtualenv and an existing project with command

    $ setvirtualenvproject virtualenv_path project_path

Under the hood, virturalenvwrapper create a ".project" file under the root of
the virtualenv, in which is the project path.

List site packages:

    $ lssitepackages

Run a command in all virtualenvs under WORKON_HOME:

    $ allvirtualenv command with arguments

Change the current working directory to the site-packages of current virtualenv($VIRTUAL_ENV):

    $ cdsitepackages

Remove virtualenv:

    $ rmvirtualenv <env_name>

## Verification

In a virtualenv, all python executables are in $WORKON_HOME.

    [lichao@lichao480:~] 
    $ workon 
    env1 env2 proj1 
    [lichao@lichao480:~] 
    $ which python 
    /usr/bin/python 
    [lichao@lichao480:~] 
    $ workon env1 
    (env1)[lichao@lichao480:~] 
    $ which python 
    /home/lichao/apps/virenv_home/env1/bin/python 
    (env1)[lichao@lichao480:~] 
    $ workon env2 
    (env2)[lichao@lichao480:~PROJECT_HOME/proj2] 
    $ which python 
    /home/lichao/apps/virenv_home/env2/bin/python
