# Scala Development on Linux
Tags: scala; linux; vim; save; hook

------

# vim + repl

This is the most light-weight solution which only `scala` and vim needed.

First write your Scala script "NewList.scala":

```scala
sealed trait List[+A]
case object Nil extends List[Nothing]
case class Cons[+A](head: A, tail: List[A]) extends List[A]

object List {
  def sum(ints: List[Int]): Int = ints match {
    case Nil => 0
    case Cons(x,xs) => x + sum(xs)
  }
  def apply[A](as: A*): List[A] =
    if (as.isEmpty) Nil
    else Cons(as.head, apply(as.tail: _*))
  // added by me
  def test() = {
    println(sum(List(3,20,1,2)))
  }
}
```

Note there can not be package definition in the script, or `:load` will fail.

Then start a REPL:

```bash
scala
scala> :load NewList.scala
scala> List.test
```

After modification in NewList.scala, run `:load ...` and `List.test` again.

## Use tmux to make this process smooth

Create an executable shell script ~/.tmux/myscripts/refresh-scala-repl.sh:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
tmux send-keys -t .1 ':load NewList.scala'
tmux send-keys -t .1 Enter
tmux send-keys -t .1 'List.test'
tmux send-keys -t .1 Enter
```

Here ".1" means "send keys to the 1st pane of the current session, current window".
The full format is `#{session_name}:#{window_index}.#{pane_index}`.
So if your editor pane is above (or on the left side of) Scala REPL pane,
you should use ".2" instead of ".1" in above script.

In vim, run `:autocmd BufWritePost *.scala silent !/home/leo/.tmux/myscripts/refresh-scala-repl.sh`.
Now every time you save the Scala script,
`:load` and `List.test` will be run automatically in Scala REPL.

Here "silent" will prevent vim from redrawing the screen.

Sometimes you have to use `scalac` & `scala` to run your codes like this:

```scala
sealed trait MyOption[+A] {
  def mymap[B](f: A => B): MyOption[B] = this match {
    case MyNone => MyNone
    case MySome(a) => MySome(f(a))
  }
}

case class MySome[+A](get: A) extends MyOption[A]
case object MyNone extends MyOption[Nothing]

object MyOption {
}
object Main extends App{
  assert(Some(3).mymap(_ * 2) == Some(6))
}
```

The corresponding autocmd is rerun-option.sh:

```bash
#!/bin/bash
tmux send-keys -t .2 'scalac MyOption.scala && scala Main'
tmux send-keys -t .2 Enter
```

Ref:

http://stackoverflow.com/questions/19313807/tmux-send-keys-syntax

[Autocommands in "Learn Vimscript the Hard Way"](http://learnvimscriptthehardway.stevelosh.com/chapters/12.html)

http://vi.stackexchange.com/questions/3060/suppress-output-from-a-vim-autocomand

# Use ScalaIDE

[ScalaIDE](http://scala-ide.org/) is based on Eclipse,
which contains Scala compiler and runtime as a plugin.
So you needn't install Scala any more.

It can check syntax error and code completion on the fly.
But you have to create a Scala project, add your script in it.

In above example, after modifying codes in editor,
use `Ctrl-A` then `Ctrl-Shift-X` (shortcut of toolbar button "Run Selection
in Scala Interpreter", can be modified in Window -> Preferences -> General ->
Keys: Send Selection to Scala Interpreter) to reload script
(like `:load` in REPL). Then focus Scala Interpreter with mouse,
and use `Ctrl-Up` then `Ctrl-Enter` to run `List.test`.

# sbt + vim

1. Download sbt package (sbt-0.13.5.deb for Mint 17 64bit) or
   use PPA and `apt update` from [sbt website](http://www.scala-sbt.org/);

1. Install it, then start sbt repl with `sbt` in shell;
   This will install sbt (sbt shell in folder */usr/share/sbt-launcher-packaging*,
   all jars needed in folder *~/.ivy2/cache/org.scala-xxx* ).

Now you can run scala repl with `sbt console` in shell,
or run `console` within sbt repl.

## Script REPL

Create a file "Hi.scala":

    object Hi extends App {
        println("Hi, there")
    }

Then run this script within sbt:

    $ sbt
    ...
    > run
    ...
    [info] Running Hi
    Hi, there

You can use tilde prefix to detect source change automatically,
just use "~run" instead of "run" in above example.
