# Publish and Install Python Applications
Tags: Python;PyPI

------

# Publish to PyPI

Follow [How To Package Your Python Code](http://www.scotttorborg.com/python-packaging/index.html).

## Register

I ran "python setup.py register" twice.
Firstly I use option 2 to register a new account,
then ran it again and use option 1 to upload the "funniest" package.

Then I saw this package in my account on PyPI.
In the management page, there is a "remove" button for delete this package.

    $ python setup.py register

## Create a source distribution

    $ python setup.py sdist

This is create a tar.gz file under dist folder.
If you like, copy that file to another host,
unpacking it and install it with "python setup.py install".

## Upload source distribution

    $ python setup.py sdist upload

After modification of source codes and version number in setup.py
(say, modify it to 0.2) run last command again to refresh distribution on PyPI.
You can see it at "https://pypi.python.org/simple/<app-name>/".

On another host, use "pip install <app-name>==0.2" to install this app,
for example: "pip install funniestlc==0.2".

# Publish in LAN

## On the develop host

1. Edit source code;

1. Create new source code distribution package: `python setup.py install sdist`;

## On the deploy host

1. Startup a virtual environment: `workon test`;

1. Write a install script:

    #!/bin/bash
    scp lichao@10.21.2.7:/home/lichao/docs/python_projects/donno/dist/donno-0.1.10.tar.gz .
    tar zxvf donno-0.1.10.tar.gz
    cd donno-0.1.10
    python setup.py install
    cd ..
