# Add Chinese Character Display Support on Linux
Tags: Chinese; Linux; 中文; 汉字; 乱码

------


Step 1: Can the termianl display unicode character?

If this terminal is set to display UTF-8 character?

    $ echo -e '\xe2\x82\xac'
    €

If the euro sign can't be displayed,
ssh to this host via another host which can display UTF-8 character,
and run this command remotely via ssh.
If the euro sign displayed, it's verified your terminal do not support UTF-8,
you have to install another UTF-8 supported terminal.

Ref: "My terminal doesn't support UTF-8" in [Locale](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/locale) of ArchLinux Documentation.

Step 2: Can the editor display unicode character?

If you find Chinese characters can't be displayed correctly in vim,
`cat` this file, if `cat` display them correctly,
that's a problem in your settings of vim, jump to section 'vim settings'.

If `cat` can't display it, too, that's the system's problem,
jump to section 'Add system language support'.

# vim settings

Run `:set encoding=utf-8` in vim editor.
If it works, add this setting into vim settings file:
`echo 'set encoding=utf-8' >> /usr/share/vim/vimrc`.

Here the position of system-wide vim setttings (/usr/share/vim/vimrc) is
specified by `vim --version | grep 'system vimrc file'` and
`vim --version | grep 'fall-back for $VIM'`.

# System language support

## Ubuntu

List all locales installed on the system:

    $ locale -a

If there's no 'zh_CN.utf8', that's why the Chinese character can't be
displayed in shell (not in vim).
Run `sudo locale-gen zh_CN.utf8`.

Test result: `export LC_ALL=en_US.utf-8`.

Notice `LC_ALL=en_US` (without `.utf8`) can't display UTF-8 charaters correctly!
Enable it permanently: add "LANG=en_US.UTF-8" or "LC_ALL=en_US.UTF-8" into
/etc/default/locale, and refresh it: `sudo locale-gen`.

## Arch Linux

    $ sudo pacman -Syu vim  // install vim and xxd

## Convert file encodings

    $ iconv -l | GBK
    $ iconv -l | UTF-8
    $ iconv -f gbk -t utf-8 <filename>
