# Text Box Autocomplete in Meteor
Tags: autocomplete; typeahead; meteor

------

Autocomplete function in text box provides instant response to user input text, which is very powerful and user-friendly.

For meteor, this function is called typeahead.
Run `meteor search typeahead`, you can find [sergeyt:typeahead](https://github.com/sergeyt/meteor-typeahead).
Clone it to your computer with git, in the "demo" subfolder, run `meteor` and open http://localhost:3000/.
When typing in the first text box ("NBA teams" in it), it will provide instant response.

sergeyt:typeahead's Bootstrap counterpart is called typeahead, too. That of jQuery is called "Autocomplete".

The following is a minimal working demo of sergeyt:typeahead:

    $ meteor create meteorapp
    $ cd meteorapp
    $ meteor add sergeyt:typeahead
    $ cat meteorapp.html
    <head>
      <title>meteorapp</title>
    </head>

    <body>
      <h1>input "p" in the following text box</h1>
      {{> sti}}
    </body>

    <template name="sti">
      <input class="form-control typeahead" name="team"
          type="text" placeholder="NBA teams"
          autocomplete="off" spellcheck="off"
          data-source="nba"/>
    </template>

    $ cat meteorapp.js
    Nba = new Meteor.Collection("nba");

    if (Meteor.isClient) {
      Template.sti.helpers({
        nba: function(){
            return Nba.find().fetch().map(
                    function(it){
                      return it.name;
                    });
        }
      });

      Meteor.startup(function(){
          Meteor.typeahead.inject();
      });
    }

    if (Meteor.isServer) {
      Meteor.startup(function () {
        Nba.insert({name:'Philadelphia 76ers'});
        Nba.insert({name:'Detroit Pistons'});
        Nba.insert({name:'Portland Trail Blazers'});
      });
    }

Note:

1. Every time start the server, the 3 items will be added into collection Nba. So if you don't clear data (with `meteor reset`), you will see many identical items in candidate list;

1. No matter "on" or "off" of the value of the "autocomplete" attribute of the text box, the autocomplete function always works. So what is the function of this attribute?
