# Virtualizations Based on XenServer
Tags: xen; xenserver; linux

------

Today I tried to build a vm groups on my PC with XenServer.

# Server

Download XenServer 6.2.0 installation iso (XenServer-6.2.0-install-cd.iso) from [XenServer.org](http://xenserver.org/).
Use this iso to install on the bare metal OS of VM host.
Setup network with dhcp.

After installation and reboot, the Configuration window of XenServer 6.2 appears.
Under "Network and Management Interface", I got the IP of the host is 10.31.4.89.

# Client

So far the linux client is much poor than its Windows couterpart.
For example, the "console" tab and context menu (right click menu) can't work properly on OpenXenManager.
It's recommended to use XenCenter on Windows as GUI tool,
and `xe` command on host as CLI tool to perform VM management,
Use `xe help --all` to list all available subcommands.
`xl` is also a good tool.

## Linux Client

On LinuxMint 17, install [OpenXenManager](http://sourceforge.net/projects/openxenmanager/) with `sudo aptitude install openxenmanager`;

Start it with `openxenmanager`, create a new server with "Hostname" 10.31.4.89, "User name" root, and "Password" the one set previously.
Connect to this server.

On my laptop, run following commands to add a new SR (storage repository) to provide guest installation ISO files.

    $ ssh root@10.31.4.89
    # mkdir /vms
    # xe sr-create name-label=Local type=iso device-config:legacy_mode=true content-type=iso device-config:location=/vms
    # exit
    $ scp ~/warez/OS/CentOS-6.5-x86_64-minimal.iso root@10.31.4.89:~/vms/
    $ ssh root@10.31.4.89
    # openxenmanager

You can use `xe sr-detach`, then `xe sr-forget` to remove SR.
Use `lvs` to list LVM information about vm's disks.

## Windows Client

Download XenCenter Windows Management Console (XenServer-6.2.0-XenCenter.msi) from Download page of [XenServer.org](http://xenserver.org/).
Install and start it.


