# Import Data from Files into Mongodb
Tags: csv, meteor, mongodb, json, import

------

# From CSV File 

Here I use mongoDB's mongoimport tool to import csv file into Meteor app's Mongodb.

First download mongodb package (mongodb-linux-x86_64-2.6.5.tgz) from [mongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/), extract it into ~/apps folder.

Next start the Meteor app. Open a new terminal window, in project root folder, run `meteor mongo`.
You can see something like "connecting to: 127.0.0.1:3001/meteor".
This tells us database server is listening on port 3001, and database name is "meteor".

Save the following codes into app's $HOME/private folder as importdb.sh:

    mongoimport -h localhost:3001 --db meteor --collection fairs --type csv --file fairs.csv --headerline

Here "-d" equals to "--db", "-c" equals to "--collection".
And the source csv file is saved in file private/fairs.csv.

It's headerline (first line of csv file) is also comma-seperated:

    Name, Age, Job
    Bob, 35, Cooker
    Tom, 28, Coder
    ...

Now in the Meteor app, add `Fairs = new Meteor.Collection("fairs");` into js file to use the data.

# From JSON File

## Json Lint

Validate the json file with [jsonlint](https://github.com/zaach/jsonlint).

You need install node.js, then install jsonlint with `npm install jsonlint -g`.
Next check the json file with `jsonlint myfile.json`.

## Import from Json File

Use the following commands to import json objects from a file:

    mongoimport -h localhost:3001 -d meteor -c fairs --type json --jsonArray --file demo.json

Or if your mongod is running on localhost, use the following line to import
(no need to create the target database and collection before import):

    mongoimport -d meteor -c fairs --type json --file first31.json --jsonArray

This is a sample of the imported json file:

    [
      { name: "Widget 1",
        desc: "This is Widget 1"
      },
      { name: "Widget 2",
        desc: "This is Widget 2"
      }
    ]

If the "--jsonArray" option is omitted, the json file have to keep each object in one line, like this:

    { name: "Widget 1", desc: "This is Widget 1" }
    { name: "Widget 2", desc: "This is Widget 2" }

See `mongoimport --help` for details.
