# Deploy Meteor App with MUP
Tags: mup; meteor; node; vps

------

# Create VPS

First build a vps on [DigitalOcean](https://digitalocean.com/), and name it "MeteorUpEx".
Get its IP address "128.199.72.xxx" at the home page of the droplet.
Get its root password in you email.
Add the following section into ~/.ssh/config:

    Host do
    Hostname 128.199.72.206
    User root

Add ssh auto login with `ssh-copy-id do`.

# Publish Meteor App

Install [Meteor Up](https://github.com/arunoda/meteor-up) with `npm install -g mup`.

Create a mup project:

    cd ~/docs/tmp
    mkdir nfDeploy
    cd nfDeploy
    mup init

Now you can see a mup.json file, edit it as follows:

    {
      "servers": [
        {
          "host": "128.199.72.xxx",
          "username": "root",
          "pem": "~/.ssh/id_rsa"
        }
      ],

      "setupMongo": true,
      "setupNode": true,
      "nodeVersion": "0.10.36",
      "setupPhantom": true,
      "appName": "newfairs",

      "app": "/home/chad/docs/tmp/newfairs/newfairsweb",

      "env": {
        "PORT": 80,
        "ROOT_URL": "http://niufairs.biz"
      },

      "deployCheckWaitTime": 15
    }

Note that the "appName" is also the database name used by Meteor app in mongoDB.
"app" is the path of your Meteor app source code folder on your local computer.
mup will bundle codes in it, and publish them to host on vps.

You can only use key authentication.
If you use password, an "sshpass required for password based authentication" error occurs.

Setup production environment: `mup setup`;
Delpoy app: `mup deploy`;

If you use external mongodb, add "MONGO_URL" into "env" section of mup.json. For example: 

    "MONGO_URL": "mongodb://104.237.135.xxx:27017/meteor"

After changing the mongo url, run `mup reconfig` to validate the new config and restart the Meteor app.

# Import Data

First dump data from database "meteor" in source mongoDB server to local machine:

    mongodump -h 104.237.135.xxx -d meteor -o mynf
    scp -r mynf do:~/
    ssh do
    cd mynf
    mongorestore -d newfairs meteor

Now verify data in mongoDB of the vps with `mongo newfairs`.

