# Synchronize Data From MongoDB to Elasticsearch
Tags: mongodb; elasticsearch; mongo-connector

------

Your mongo replica set and elasticsearch are hosted on 2 servers.
The mongo server is on "mip:mport".
The ES server is on "esip:esport".

On another server, install [mongo-connector](https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-connector)
with `pip install mongo-connector`.
If there are some errors, it may be caused by absence of gcc.
On Ubuntu, install them with `sudo apt-get install build-essential python-dev`.

    mongo-connector -m mip:mport -t esip:esport -d elastic_doc_manager --admin-username root --password rootPwd

That's it!
Now when you insert documents into MongoDB,
you can see it on elasticsearch.

We've studied Mongo River and Mongoosatic, neither is better than this.

Note 1 (2015.11.15):

阿里云服务器上，用普通用户es启动es服务(`bin/elasticsearch`)，同一用户启动mongo-connector后，报
"AttributeError: 'IndicesClient' object has no attribute 'delete_mapping'"错误，
es版本为2.0，mongo-connector版本为2.1，将es版本改为1.7，mongo-connector改为1.3后，
仍然出现这一错误，原因是MongoDB中删除了test库中的一个Collection，但ES中仍然有，就会出现这个错误，
解决方法是清空ES的test重新同步一遍：
`curl -XDELETE http://123.57.188.18:9322/test`.
Ref: https://github.com/mongodb-labs/mongo-connector/issues/349

Note 2:

Use root to sync is unsafe.
We create an user with "clusterManager" role to do this work.
Login with root, and run:

    use admin
    db.createUser(
        {
          user: "clustermgr",
          pwd: "cmpwd",
          roles: [ "clusterManager" ]
        }
    )

But run the command
`mongo-connector -m 119.254.211.28:15515 -t localhost:9200 -d elastic_doc_manager --admin-username clustermgr --password cmpwd`
will be the error `OperationFailure: database error: not authorized for query on local.oplog.rs`.
