# MongoDB Client
Tags: mongodb; client

------

# MongoChef

[MongoChef](http://3t.io/mongochef/) is a cross platform MongoDB GUI client.
Its free version only for non-commercial use.
It's the best choice I found so far.

# RockMongo

## Install and Setup

[RockMongo](http://rockmongo.com/) is a PHP MongoDB client.

It can't update complicated (nested) data structure, useless.

Install bitnami Nginx Stack;

Run `$STACK_HOME/php/bin/pecl install mongo`;

Add `extension=mongo.so` into `$STACK_HOME/php/etc/php.ini`;

Run `mkdir $STACK_HOME/apps/rockmongo`;

Download rockmongo-1.1.7.zip, extract to `$STACK_HOME/apps/rockmongo`;
and `mv rockmongo-1.1.7 htdocs`;

In folder `$STACK_HOME/apps`, run `cp -r demo/conf rockmongo/`;

In folder `$STACK_HOME/apps`, replace all `demo` in `rockmongo/conf/nginx-prefix.conf`
to `rockmongo`;

Add `include "/home/leo/apps/nginxstack-1.9.7-0/apps/rockmongo/conf/nginx-prefix.conf";`
into `$STACK_HOME/nginx/conf/bitnami/bitnami-apps-prefix.conf`;

Modify mongodb connection parameters in `$STACK_HOME/apps/rockmongo/htdocs/config.php`:
modify "mongo_name", "mongo_host" and "mongo_port" as your target value,
modify "mongo_auth" and "ui_hide_system_collections" to "true".

Start nginx server: `$STACK_HOME/ctlscript.sh start`;

Open "localhost:8080/rockmongo" in your browser, login with your mongodb auth params.

You can add a new mongodb with codes below in apps/rockmongo/htdocs/config.php:

    $MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "AliDB";
    $MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "123.57.188.18";
    $MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "15515";
    $MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = true;
    $MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_system_collections"] = true;
    $i ++;

And validate with `./ctlscript.sh restart nginx`.

Note:

1. The nginx listening port (here is 8080) is defined in
`$STACK_HOME/nginx/conf/bitnami/bitnami.conf`;

1. If you logged in with a previous user in browser, click "logout" button
in upper-right corner to logout. Specify target username, passowrd and database
in login page.

## Usage

You have to write regex query in this way: `{ "chnName": { "$regex": "98" } }`,
and it didn't accept this form: `{ "chnName": /98/ }`.

Specify which fields will be shown in the results at the "Fields" dropdown list
below the query box.

# UMongo

[UMongo](http://edgytech.com/umongo/) can only setup 1 connection,
and if the user is not root, it will give a auth failed error.

# MongoVUE

Only for Windows. I tested v1.6.9 on Windows 7 64bit.
It can't connect to mongo replica set. (Always auth failed).
When connected with a local mongodb server,
searching and "copy as json text" function is ok.
But crash and quit when copy a part in a document.
