# Setup Haskell Develop Environment in Atom
Tags: haskell; atom

------

[IDE-Haskell](https://atom.io/packages/ide-haskell) is a good choice
for haskell editor.

# Installation

    $ cabal update
    $ cabal install ghc-mod stylish-haskell
    $ ghc-mod --version
    ghc-mod version 5.5.0.0 compiled by GHC 7.10.2

Download Atom 1.5 (atom-amd64.deb),
install it with `sudo dpkg -i atom-amd64.deb`, and run:

    $ apm install language-haskell haskell-ghc-mod ide-haskell-cabal ide-haskell autocomplete-haskell ide-haskell-repl

Open Atom, Ctrl-Shift-P, open "View Installed Packages",
click "Settings" of haskell-ghc-mod,
input full path of ghc-mod and ghc-modi in "Ghc Mod Path" and "Ghc Modi Path",
here "/home/leo/.cabal/bin/ghc-mod" and "/home/leo/.cabal/bin/ghc-modi".

Click "Settings" of ide-haskell,
input full path of stylish-haskell in "Stylish Haskell Path",
here it's "/home/leo/.cabal/bin/stylish-haskell".

Restart Atom, open a folder contains haskell .hs files to use ide-haskell.

## GHCi in Atom

Click "Settings" of ide-haskell-repl,
set "Command Args" to "ghci", and "Command Path" to "/usr/bin/stack",
when you use stack. (This works fine in Atom 1.5).
Set "Command Args" to "repl", and "Command Path" to "/home/leo/.local/bin/cabal",
when you use cabal. (This doesn't work in Atom 1.5).

To load chapter 2 of "Learning Haskell Data Analysis"
into ide-haskell-repl, you must install required libraries with stack:

    stack install csv HDBC sqlite HDBC-sqlite3

Then open file "LearningDataAnalysis02.hs" in Atom,
click [Haskell IDE -> Open REPL] in main menu,
now module "LearningDataAnalysis02" is loaded into ghci.
Input `parseCSVFromFile "all_week.csv"` in repl box,
press Shift+Enter to evluate it.

See all keybindings in "Keybindings" of ide-haskell-repl
in Atom package settings.

# Discussion

Ensure ghc-mod version > 5.4.
Do NOT install it with `apt-get`, because its version is 3.x.
See https://github.com/atom-haskell/haskell-ghc-mod#configuration for details.

If you only install stack instead of cabal, you can install Haskell package with
`stack install ghc-mod stylish-haskell`.
