# Debug Python Script
Tags: ipdb; pudb; python; ipython

------

Now I want to dubug a script named `filteringdata.py`.

# PyCharm Community Edition

It's editor (with IdeaVim plugin), linter and debugger is
the most powerful and verbose in the 3 candidates.

Add the following lines into ~/.ideavimrc:

    set nocompatible
    set clipboard=unnamedplus
    nnoremap ; :
    nnoremap : ;
    vnoremap ; :
    vnoremap : ;

The code navigation shortcut "Ctrl-Alt-Left/Right" of the default keymap
"Default for XWin" (in File -> Settings) is conflict with
"Switch workspace"'s shortcut key of Ubuntu Unity.
So change the "Keymaps" to "Default for GNOME", whose code navigation key
is "Alt-Shift-Left/Right".

## Editor Setup

[File -> Settings -> Editor -> Colors & Fonts]:

Setup editor font size:  [Font -> Primary font -> Size: 16]

Setup editor background to pure dark: [General -> Text -> Default text],
click the "Background" color icon, set R,G,B to 0,
click the "Foreground" color icon, set R,G,B to 255.

Set right margin :
[File -> Settings -> Editor -> Code Style -> General: Right margin (columns)],
set it's value to 80 instead of the default value 120.

Jump between editor and terminal: modify it to Alt-K (default: Alt-F12)
[File -> Settings -> Keymap]: search "terminal", double click "Terminal",
choose "Add Keyboard Shortcut".

## Some Shortcuts

Toggle Project View: Alt-1

Split window: Ctrl-Shift-A, input "split", select "Split vertical/horizontal"

Jump between files: Ctrl-Shift-N

Jump between editor tabs and split window: Ctrl-Tab

Full screen: [View -> Enter Full Screen]

Clipboard history: Ctrl-Shift-v

Jump to previous/next function: Alt-Up/Down

## Discussion

You can switch easily between "Console" and "Debugger" panels.
The Console panel distinguishes stdout and stderr with different colors,
which is particularly useful when debugging some programs
with both stdout and stderr outputs.

Meanwhile you can evaluate an expression at the runtime in "Watches" window.

# pudb

Comparing with ipdb, pudb needn't add stub in source script.

Install:

```
sudo pip install pudb
sudo chown -R leo:leo ~/.config/pudb
```

Or the Python3 version: `pip3 search pudb3`.

Debug Python script: `pudb filteringdata.py` (`pudb3 myPy3App.py` for Python3)
or with command line arguments: `pudb uploadES.py fairs.json production Fair`.

Use `?` to list all available commands.

Focus code window with `C`
(which is the default window focused once you are in pudb), `n` to step over,
`s` step into , `f` finish current function (like step out), `c` continue,
`o` to see the console output (very useful!).

Focus variable window with `V`.
In this window:
use `w` to toggle line wrap,
`[`/`]` to grow/shrink relative size of the window,
`=`/`-` to grow/shrink sidebar.
`\ ` to expand/collapse variable result.

Toggle focus on command line with 'Ctrl-x'.

# ipdb

There are totally 3 steps when debugging a Python script with
ipdb module: install, insert stubs in source codes and debug.

First install with `sudo pip install ipdb`.

Then add `from ipdb import set_trace` at the head into the script,
and add `set_trace()` at the first place you want the dubugger to stop.

Finally start a shell and run:

    $ ipython
    ...
    IPython 4.0.1 ...
    ...
    In [1]: %run filteringdata.py
    > /home/leo/docs/playground/pg2dm-python/ch2/filteringdata.py(53)recommend()
         52     # first find nearest neighbor
    ---> 53     nearest = computeNearestNeighbor(username, users)[0][1]
         54 

    ipdb> h

Frequently used commands include:

    a: print args of current function;
    b: set or list break points;
    c: continue to next break points;
    n: next;
    s: step;
    p & pp: evaluate and print value of an expression;
    pp locals(): pretty-print all local variables;
    q: quit;

Use `h a` to see the help information about command `a`.
