# Develop Python Codes in IPython
Tags: ipython; python; shell

------

# configurations

Config ipython, make it loading *autoreload* extension automatically,
and quit without confirmation:
```
$ cat << EOF > ~/.ipython/profile_default/startup/50-autoreload.ipy
%load_ext autoreload
%autoreload 2
%config TerminalInteractiveShell.confirm_exit = False
EOF
```

If not config it globally, you can run commands above in ipython shell.

Autoreload make the change to function and class method reloaded automatically
after the file saved.

# workflow

An editor pane and an IPython pane in a tmux window.
In IPython shell, import all functions in the developed file
(name it myfile.py for example) with `from myfile import *`,
and you can use all functions of myfile in IPython shell.

Ref: https://ipython.org/ipython-doc/3/config/extensions/autoreload.html

# run shell command

`!` only executes a shell command.
With `!!`, you can store the command output for later use.
Reference the output with `_<no>`, for example `_38`.

# debug

Install `ipdb` with `sudo pip3 install ipdb`.

Add `from ipdb import set_trace` and `set_trace()` into myfile,
the line before the the breakpoint.

In IPython shell, run `%pdb` and the function.
It will stopped at the `set_trace()`. Use `h` for available commands.

You can add multiple `set_trace()` for multiple breakpoints.
Use `c` to jump to the next breakpoint.

# other tips

* `%quickref` shows a quick reference sheet;

* `ll` to list files in current directory;

* `%cd` changes working directory;

* `%who` and `%whos` list all interactive variables;

* `_` is the last command output;

* Use `_oh` to see all output;

* `edit` edit a string and run it, for example: `edit _`;

* `%time` is the shell command `time` equivalent;

Ref: https://ipython.org/ipython-doc/3/interactive/magics.html
