# Python IDE based on vim
Tags: python; ide; vim

------

# Using python-mode + supertab

python-mode check the code code style with PEP8 and syntax with
[PyFlakes](https://github.com/PyCQA/pyflakes) (via [pylama](https://github.com/klen/pylama)),
such as unassigned variables, incomplete statements, etc.
However it use [rope](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/rope) to complete words,
while rope doesn't support Python 3 by now. So I choose supertab to replace rope.
super-tab search words in all the project files, which is very
practical and smart.

Add the following lines into ~/.vimrc and install with Vundle:
```
let g:pymode_lint_on_fly = 0
let g:pymode_breakpoint = 1
let g:pymode_breakpoint_bind = '<leader>b'
let g:pymode_folding = 0
cabbrev af PymodeLintAuto<CR>

Plugin 'python-mode/python-mode'
Plugin 'ervandew/supertab'
```

Now you can:

* Auto lint and syntax check after saving file;

* Auto format codes according to PEP8 with `:af`;

* Run current buffer with `<leader>r`;

* Show doc of the current word with `K`;

See `:h pymode-features` for details.

Note:
* python-mode now (2018.1.17) uses git submodules to organize codes,
which Vundle can handle automatically for you.

* python-mode seems conflict with jedi-vim according to
[jedi-vim doc](https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi-vim#caveats).
So remove jedi-vim after installing python-mode.

## Ignore Specific Lint Errors and Warnings

The problem is describe in "PEP8 – import not at top of file with sys.path" in
SO (stackoverflow.com).

Option 1: ignore in your editor:

Add `let g:pymode_lint_ignore = ["E501", "W",]` into ~/.vimrc to ignore *E501*
and all warnings when linting the Python source files.
Search `ignore` in `:h pymode` for more details.

Option 2: ignore for specific line:

Add `# nopep8` or `# noqa` at the end of the line where raise the error.

Ref: "How to disable a pep8 error in a specific file?" in SO.

## Go to Definitions

I want to get tags for whole project without opening all files one by one.
But xolox/vim-easytags and majutsushi/tagbar can only create tags for the
opening file. So I choose to build the tag file manually with ctags.

First install ctags with `sudo apt install exuberant-ctags`.

The default tag file name is `tags`, I prefer the name `.tags`.
So in $MYVIMRC, add `set tags=.tags;`.
Notice the semicolon at the end, it will make vim search for *.tags*
in parent folder of each level until it find one.
Without it, you can only use tags when the working directory of the editor
is the project root.

In the root folder of the Python project, run `ctags -R -f .tags .`.
Add `.tags` in file *.gitignore*.

Now you can use *Ctrl-]* to go to function definition,
and *Ctrl-o* to jump back.

Note: you can config ctags in file ~/.ctags:
```
--python-kinds=-iv
--exclude=build
--exclude=dist
```
according to [‘Go to Definition’ in Vim for Python using Ctags, Done Right](http://tartley.com/?p=1277).

## Find and Replace

Using plugin *brooth/far.vim*, find the word under cursor with
`:F Ctrl-r Ctrl-w **/*.py`. Here `Ctrl-r Ctrl-w` is the key shortcut for getting
the word under cursor in command line mode.

Note:

In command line mode (start with pressing `:` in normal mode),
using `Ctrl-r %` to get the current file name;
`Ctrl-r /` to get the last search pattern, etc.
See details of key shortcuts in command line mode with `:h c_CTRL-R`.

------

Origin post in 2017:

# 命令执行

前提：vim有 *python* 标志：`vim --version|ag python`

安装 [vim-cellmode](https://github.com/leetschau/vim-cellmode) 插件，在.vimrc中加入：
```
" vimux cellmode
let g:cellmode_tmux_panenumber='2'
let g:cellmode_default_mappings='0'
vnoremap <silent> <leader>v :call RunTmuxPythonChunk()<CR>
nnoremap <silent> <leader>l :call RunTmuxPythonLine()<CR>
noremap <silent> <leader>nc :call RunTmuxPythonCell(0)<CR>
noremap <silent> <leader>c :call RunTmuxPythonCell(1)<CR>
noremap <silent> <leader>ut :call RunTmuxPythonAllCellsAbove()<CR>

Plugin 'benmills/vimux'
Plugin 'julienr/vim-cellmode'
```

关于vimscript的语法，例如`function! MyFunc() range` 中，
`!` 的含义（覆盖同名函数），`range` 关键字的含义（函数自己处理范围），
参考 `:h :function`

# 自动补全

前提：
* 安装jedi：`pip install --user jedi`
* vim有 *conceal* 标志：`vim --version|ag conceal`

安装 [jedi-vim](https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi-vim) 插件：
在.vimrc中加入`Plugin 'davidhalter/jedi-vim'`
