# Build Self-hosted Git Service on Private Host
Tags: gogs; ubuntu

------

Today I followed the instructions on [Install from binary](https://gogs.io/docs/installation/install_from_binary),
download the gogs binary for Linux amd64 with tar.gz extension to
a vagrant virtual host on *ThinkCenter* (IP address *172.18.0.244*).
Extract it to *~/apps/gogs* folder:
```
sudo useradd -m -p $(openssl passwd -1 mygitpwd) git
su - git
mkdir apps; cd apps
tar xf /vagrant/gogs0.11.34.tar.gz
cd gogs
./gogs web    # or use another port with '-port 3001'
```

Open *172.18.0.244:3000* in browser, modify the following install parameters:
```
Database Type: SQLite3
Domain: 172.18.0.244
Application URL: http://172.18.0.244:3000/
```

Then click *Install Gogs* to install Gogs service.
After that click *Sign up now* to register a new user *leo*.
This user will be the administrator of the gogs system.

# Run as Daemon

According to [How do I run Gogs at startup with Systemd?](https://gogs.io/docs/intro/faqs#how-do-i-run-gogs-at-startup-with-systemd%3F).

Modify the following items in `$GOGS_HOME/scripts/systemd/gogs.service`:
```
WorkingDirectory=/home/git/apps/gogs
ExecStart=/home/git/apps/gogs/gogs web
```

And comment out `After=mariadb.service mysqld.service ...`,
for here we use SQLite3 instead of mariadb, etc.

Copy the file into folder `/etc/systemd/system` and run:
```
sudo systemctl enable gogs
sudo systemctl start gogs
```

There's also an *init.d* [script](https://github.com/gogits/gogs/blob/master/scripts/init/debian/gogs)
provided, which is more complicated to configure than the systemd equivalent.

Note:

Don't use existing user as the gogs *Run User*.
Thus the normal SSH connection will be interfered by Gogs.

# Backup and Restore

Backup: `./gogs backup` and save the created file in the current folder:
*gogs-backup-xxx.zip*.

Restore: `./gogs restore --from="gogs-backup-xxx.zip"`.

Notice that the user name of the backup and restore must be the same,
or the restore will failed.

Follow [How to backup, restore and migrate](https://discuss.gogs.io/t/how-to-backup-restore-and-migrate/991)
for details.

# Clone with SSH

After adding the client's SSH public key in Gogs *Your Settings > SSH Keys*,
I could push an existing repository to Gogs:
```
git remote add gogs git@172.18.0.244:leo/programming-style.git
git push gogs master
```

And clone it from Gogs:
`git clone git@172.18.0.244:leo/programming-style.git`.

Under the hood, Gogs add something like the following lines to file
*~/.ssh/authorized_keys* of user *git*:
```
command="/home/git/apps/gogs/gogs serv key-1 --config='/home/git/apps/gogs/custo
m/conf/app.ini'",no-port-forwarding,no-X11-forwarding,no-agent-forwarding,no-pty
 ssh-rsa <your-pub-key>
```

So if you can't push via ssh, check if the contents in *authorized_keys* is
generated correctly.
